[#4095] Rewrite Tuning section to comply with AF5 API (#4535)
AxonFramework/AxonFramework: docs/reference-guide/modules/tuning/pages/event-processing.adoc

= Event Processing

> Event processing in Axon Framework 5 is centered around `PooledStreamingEventProcessor`.

Reviewer: We do not have to mention Axon Framework 5 specifically. This is "just Axon Framework" now. Hence, we can adjust the documentation such to just talk about Axon Framework instead.

```suggestion
Event processing in Axon Framework is centered around `PooledStreamingEventProcessor`.
```

They are a good fit when you want higher throughput than subscribing processors and when event handling can be parallelized across segments.

The main tuning knobs are:

* `initialSegmentCount(int)` to decide how many segments are created when the token store is empty
* `batchSize(int)` to decide how many events are handled in one transaction
* `tokenClaimInterval(long)` to control how often the coordinator retries token claims
* `claimExtensionThreshold(long)` to decide when a running work package refreshes its claim
* `maxClaimedSegments(int)` or `maxSegmentProvider(...)` to limit how much work one instance can own
* `enableCoordinatorClaimExtension()` when work packages spend a long time handling batches

In practice, most tuning starts with `batchSize`, `initialSegmentCount`, and the executor sizing.
The defaults are conservative and work well for small systems, but high-throughput installations usually need larger batches and more careful claim management.

=== Configuration

Use the `EventProcessingConfigurer` to register pooled streaming processors and apply shared defaults:

[source,java]
----

> MessagingConfigurer.create()

Reviewer: Same concern as with the previous page. I think it's better if we inject the `MessagingConfigurer` instead of creating it anew.

                   .eventProcessing(eventProcessing -> eventProcessing
                           .pooledStreaming(pooled -> pooled
                                   .defaults((configuration, processorConfig) -> processorConfig
                                           .initialSegmentCount(8)
                                           .batchSize(50)
                                           .tokenClaimInterval(5000)
                                           .claimExtensionThreshold(5000))
                                   .defaultProcessor("order-processor", components ->
                                           components.declarative("OrderUpdated", cfg -> orderProjection))));
----

> If you prefer Spring Boot auto-configuration, expose the same processor settings as beans or let the framework bind its defaults and only override the values you need.

Reviewer: The Spring Boot configuration expects people to use the `EventProcessorDefinition` bean for Spring specifically. I do think that requires a dedicated example.

Author: yes

== Sequencing policy

`PooledStreamingEventProcessor` does not serialize all events globally.
It groups work according to the configured `SequencingPolicy`.
When two events resolve to the same sequence identifier, they are handled sequentially relative to each other.
When they resolve to different identifiers, they can still be processed in parallel by different work packages.

That means your sequencing policy directly affects throughput:

* narrow sequence identifiers preserve concurrency
* broad sequence identifiers reduce parallelism
* `Optional.empty()` leaves the event unsequenced and available for concurrent processing

If you migrate toward Dynamic Consistency Boundaries, revisit any event sequencing policy that still assumes aggregate identifiers are the concurrency boundary.
The right policy is the one that matches the actual consistency boundary you want to preserve.

> For a deeper discussion of sequencing policy options and defaults, see xref:migration:paths/sequencing-policies.adoc[Sequencing Policy Migration].

Reviewer 2: should we reiterate here that the default is `SequentialPerAggregate`, but it is falling back to `Sequential` (meaning effectively 1 single segment, no parallelism) if there is no aggregate identifier present in the context as stated here: https://docs.axoniq.io/axon-framework-reference/5.1/events/event-processors/streaming/#sequential_processing

Reviewer: Yes, at least reiterate for sure! But we should definitely also keep the reference to the main page.

== Token store

Pooled streaming processors rely on a durable `TokenStore` to remember progress and coordinate segment ownership across instances.
If no token store is configured, Axon Framework falls back to an `InMemoryTokenStore`, which is fine for tests and demos but not for production.

The practical rule is simple:

* use a durable token store in production
* keep the token store close to the data that your event handlers update

> * size the database so token claims and event handling do not contend for connections

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* size connection pooling so that token claims and event handling do not contend for connections
```

For the full token store configuration options, see xref:events:event-processors/streaming.adoc#token_store[Token store].

== DCB impact

Dynamic Consistency Boundaries change the shape of the event stream that a processor sees.

> In an aggregate-based store, the sequencing and token management story is still centered on aggregate-oriented ordering.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In an aggregate-based store, the sequencing and token management is still centered on aggregate-oriented ordering.
```

With DCB support, the concurrency boundary is defined by tags and criteria instead, so event handler sequencing and processor parallelism need to be chosen with that model in mind.

In other words, the same tuning knobs still exist, but the right values depend on the storage model:

* aggregate-based stores usually follow the classic per-aggregate ordering assumptions
* DCB-based stores require an explicit policy that matches the business boundary you want to preserve
* if you use DCB, revisit both sequencing and segment sizing instead of assuming aggregate-style defaults will carry over

== Operating guidance

* Increase `batchSize` when event handling is fast and transactional rollback is acceptable.
* Keep `batchSize` small when the handler performs slow I/O or when rollback would be expensive.
* Increase `initialSegmentCount` when you expect multiple application instances to share the load.
* Use a durable `TokenStore`; the in-memory store is only appropriate for tests and simple demos.
* Set the executor sizes so coordinator and worker threads do not starve each other.

> * Enable coordinator claim extension when workers process large batches and token claims need to be refreshed more aggressively.

Reviewer 2: maybe add a link to https://docs.axoniq.io/axon-framework-reference/5.1/events/event-processors/streaming/#token_claim_config here in the text

> ifdef::advanced-framework[]

Reviewer: Please drop the blacklisting section, as we no longer support that.
